---
price: 
type: Magical Items
vermun: false
seen: false
owned: false
attunement: true
---
# Ring of Winter

*Magical Items, Artifact* **Attunement needed.**

{@creature Artus Cimber|ToA} has kept this item in his possession for over a century. The Ring of Winter is a golden band that resizes to fit snugly on the finger of its wearer. A thin layer of frost coats the outside of the ring, which normal heat can't melt. The ring feels ice cold to the touch and initially numbs the hand that wears it, but this cold ceases to be felt by one who is attuned to this ring. The Ring of Winter is sentient and tries to take control of any creature that wears it (see "Sentient Magic Items" chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). If it succeeds, the ring compels its wearer to cause undue harm to everyone and everything around it, in a cold-hearted attempt to incur the wrath of enemies and bring the wearer's doom. **Sentience:** The Ring of Winter is a sentient chaotic evil item with an Intelligence of 14, a Wisdom of 14, and a Charisma of 17. The ring communicates by transmitting emotion to the creature carrying or wielding it, and it has hearing and normal vision out to a range of 60 feet. The ring craves destruction, and it likes inflicting indiscriminate harm on others.**Nondetection:** The Ring of Winter defies attempts to magically locate it. Neither the ring nor its wearer can be targeted by any {@spell divination} magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.**Frozen Time:** As long as you wear the ring, you don't age naturally. This effect is similar to suspended animation, in that your age doesn't catch up to you once the ring is removed. The ring doesn't protect its wearer from magical or supernatural aging effects, such as the Horrifying Visage of a {@creature ghost}.**Cold Immunity:** While attuned to and wearing the ring, you have immunity to cold damage and don't suffer any ill effects from extreme cold (see chapter 5 of the Dungeon's Master Guide).**Magic:** The Ring of Winter has 12 charges and regains all its expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can expend the necessary number of charges to activate one of the following properties:**Other Properties:** The Ring of Winter is rumored to possess other properties that can be activated only by an evil being whose will the ring can't break. Frost giants have long believed that the ring can be used to freeze entire worlds, while a {@creature djinni} in the service of a Calishite pasha once claimed that the ring could be used to summon and control white dragons, as well as the mighty ice primordial named Cryonax.**Destroying the Ring:** The ring is nigh indestructible, resisting even the most intense magical heat. If it is placed on the finger of the powerful archfey known as the Summer Queen, the ring melts away and is destroyed forever.