---
name: Pod Demon
size: Large
type: Fiend (Demon)
alignment: 
ac: 18 (natural armor)
hp: 210
speed: walk 30
cr: 12
strength: 17
dexterity: 12
constitution: 20
intelligence: 8
wisdom: 16
charisma: 20
saving_throws:
skills:
senses: darkvision 60 ft.
languages:
  - Abyssal, telepathy 120 ft.
weaknesses:
resistances:
  - Cold
  - Fire
  - Lightning
immunities:
  - acid
  - poison
  - poisoned
---

# Pod Demon

*Large Fiend (Demon)*

**Abilities**

| STR | DEX | CON | INT | WIS | CHA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 17 | 12 | 20 | 8 | 16 | 20 |

**Armor Class**: 18 (natural armor)

**Hit Points**: 210

**Speed**: walk 30

**Senses**: darkvision 60 ft.

**Languages**:
  - Abyssal, telepathy 120 ft.

**Challenge**: 12

### Traits
***Corrosive Coating.*** A creature that touches the pod demon or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 4 ({@dice 1d8}) acid damage. Any nonmagical weapon made of metal or wood that hits the pod demon corrodes. After dealing damage, the weapon takes a permanent cumulative -1 penalty to damage rolls. If its penalty drops to -5, the weapon is destroyed. Nonmagical ammunition made of metal or wood that hits the pod demon is destroyed after dealing damage.

***Podspawn.*** At the start of its turn, a pod demon that has fewer than four living podspawn creates one podspawn that is placed within 5 feet of the pod demon. A pod demon's podspawn obey its telepathic commands and act on the pod demon's initiative. A pod demon can only telepathically communicate with its own podspawn and podspawn generated by another pod demon do not count toward its number of podspawn.

### Actions
***Multiattack.*** The pod demon makes two slam attacks.

***Slam.*** Melee Weapon Attack: {@hit +7} to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 ({@dice 2d6+3}) bludgeoning damage and 9 ({@dice 2d8}) acid damage.

***Hurl Podspawn.*** Ranged Weapon Attack: {@hit +7} to hit, range 30/90 ft., one target. Hit: 27 ({@dice 6d8}) acid damage. The pod demon must have a podspawn within 10 feet of itself to make this attack. The podspawn dies on a hit. If the attack misses, the podspawn is placed in an unoccupied space of the target's choice within 5 feet of the target and takes {@dice 2d6} bludgeoning damage.

***Spawning Burst (Recharge 5—6).*** The pod demon birthes several podspawn at once in a burst of corrosive pus. Creatures within 10 feet of the pod demon must make on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 ({@dice 4d8}) acid damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A number of podspawn are generated that bring the pod demon's total number of podspawn up to four.

***Detonate podspawn (Recharge 5—6).*** The pod demon orders one podspawn within its telepathy range to explode. That podspawn uses its detonate ability this turn.

***Transfer Essence.*** The pod demon transfers its essence into one of its podspawn, causing the podspawn to become thew pod demon, while the demon's body shrinks to become a podspawn. The pod demon and the chosen pod spawn immediately swap places.

