---
price: 
type: Weapons and Armor
vermun: false
seen: false
owned: false
attunement: true
---
# Staff of the Forgotten One

*Weapons and Armor, Artifact* **Attunement needed.**

This crooked staff is carved from bone and topped with the skull of a forgotten {@creature archmage} whom {@creature Acererak|ToA} destroyed long ago. Etched into the skull's forehead is {@creature acererak|ToA|Acererak's} rune, which is known on many worlds as a sign of death. Beneficial Properties. While the staff is on your person, you gain the following benefits: Invoke Curse. The Staff of the Forgotten One has 7 charges and regains 1d4+3 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 1 charge and target one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (using your spell save DC) or be cursed. While cursed in this way, the target can't regain hit points and has vulnerability to necrotic damage. A {@spell greater restoration}, {@spell remove curse}, or similar spell ends the curse on the target. The Forgotten One. The bodiless life force of a dead {@creature archmage} empowers the staff and is imprisoned within it. The rune carved into the staff's skull protects {@creature Acererak|ToA} from this spirit's vengeance. Each time a creature other than {@creature Acererak|ToA} expends any of the staff's charges, there is a 50 percent chance that the life force tries to possess the staff wielder. The wielder must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or be possessed, becoming an NPC under the DM's control. If the intruding life force is targeted by magic such as a {@spell dispel evil and good} spell, it becomes trapped in the staff once more. Once it takes control of another creature, the insane spirit of the dead {@creature archmage} attempts to destroy the staff. Destroying the Staff. A creature in possession of the staff can use an action to break it over one knee or a solid surface. The staff is destroyed and releases its remaining magic in an explosion that expands to fill a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it. Each creature in the area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 132 (24d10) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. When the staff is destroyed, the life force of the Forgotten One is released to the afterlife. Where it goes is anyone's guess.